# Mouse_Ctsl_FixedTCRb
This repository contains code and data to help readers reproduce results presented in Petrozziello et al's paper, "Cathepsin L-Dependent Positive Selection Shapes Clonal Composition and Functional Fitness of CD4 T Cells".
I thank the first author, Elisabetta Petrozziello, and the senior author, Ludger Klein, for inviting me to contribute to this exciting research project. 
The purpose of this repository is to help interested readers reproduce the figures reporting TCR sequence analyses performed on samples from Ctsl-WT or Ctsl-DeltaTEC mice with a fixed TCRbeta chain. For full details, please refer to the paper by Petrozziello et al. 
Instructions for running the code on your computer: Step 1: Download all files in this repository. Step 2: Save all of the downloaded files into one folder. Importantly, the file called "ctsl.tcra.clonotype.table.txt" is the starting point for all subsequent analyses. Step 3: Install and/or launch Rstudio software. Step 4: To reproduce the results shown in a figure panel(s), e.g. Figs 3c and 3d, use Rstudio to run the code in the corresponding file, e.g "Figs 3c and 3d.R".  Note: To reproduce Extended Fig 3f, users have the option of visiting https://www.imgt.org/IMGT_jcta/analysis to analyse the data themselves using the IMGT Junction Analysis tool. Alternatively, users may opt to skip this step and use output from the IMGT Junction Analysis tool for this paper in the file called  "Expected_output_ExtFig3f_fullresults.txt". 
Software dependencies: tidyverse (Version 2.0.0); stringr (Version 1.5.1); scales (Version 1.3.0); abdiv (Version 0.2.0); iNEXT (Version 3.0.1). In each ".R" file, there are commands designed to install or launch software dependencies.  
Codes were written using Rstudio (Version 2024.04.2+764). 
Operating system: macOS Sequoia (Version 15.3.1).
Typical install time on a standard desktop computer: < 10 minutes.
